import { useState } from "react";
import map from "./map.webp";

export const title = "03. Stories";

# 03. Stories

We hovered along for a few more hours. The body of water we crossed was not a river but a whole
system of connected canals, separated by small pockets of land. The view from the cockpit of the car
was just breathtaking. Enormous water lilies dotted the surface of the of the canals, and then all
at once they were replaced by beautiful sloping trees, partially submerged in the water. I caught
myself thinking that I would have given anything to feast my eyes on
{<TV video="qZ0_aa6RxvQ" from="59:20">that view</TV>} for all eternity. It's amazing that the mere
sight of nature suffuses us with such peace and tranquillity — a frequently overlooked phenomenon.

At some point, the canal system began to lose its structure: the channels were thinning, and the
main waterway was becoming narrower and narrower. Eventually, we came to a slightly sloping shore
and turned off the air cushion.

We then drove along a wide road flanked by a green plain for another two or three hours. I began to
notice other cars coming towards us. It was clear from their frequency that we had reached the main
road.

Ash pressed a small button on the dashboard and the compass needle pointed south-southwest.

“I think we're running low on power. Let's stop at this service station just before we turn the
corner," he suggested.

The service — or rather recharging — station, was a small hill with four tunnels running through it.
There was a platform at the entrance of each tunnel to which the car had to be driven, and then the
platform would guide the car down a conveyor belt inside the tunnel. What happened next in the
tunnel was still not very clear to us (the conveyor wouldn't start until you got out of the car). It
seemed that mechanisms would somehow connect to the car's body and charge it, and separate sensors
would check that the air cushion was working properly.

The procedure took just over half an hour, so we decided to take the stairs up to
{<TV video="SoJFPa3wfJ0" from="2:52" withSound> the roadside shop</TV>} at the very top of the hill.

“Hey look at this ridiculous map!" I said. A book on a stand for guidebooks and maps had caught my
eye. But this book seemed different to the others. Unlike the standard maps there, it was hand-drawn
and depicted strange objects instead of cities, such as: a toilet bowl, bowling pins and a pencil
sharpener.

“It probably got here by accident…. it could be from the children's section," Ash replied with some
difficulty, as he'd just stuffed a croissant into his mouth.

“No, no, look, it says here: 'A Guide to Roadside Monuments of Cultural Importance.'
{<Gem oct={4} />} It seems to be an actual map, apparently, for people who like to stop and look at,
well… an enormous toilet by the roadside. It says here that this Monument Valley starts after 50km,
if we go a bit off our route. It's hard to imagine who'd be interested in that, to be honest...”

“Yes, what a waste of time. It's also off the main road, so I'm sure that nobody bothers to go
there.”

...

Yet within half an hour we were looking at a gargantuan (the biggest in the world, according to the
book) lava lamp. Yes, it was interesting to see what kind of idiot had wanted to break that record.

Having suddenly developed a keen interest in the topic, Ash was now not letting the map out of his
hands:

“It says here that it took 'three truckloads of wax of different colours and densities' to create.
And the lamp is hardly ever turned off, because it takes hours to heat up and cool down. Also, 'the
switched-on lamp is meant to symbolise the chaos that prevails in the universe, the increasing
entropy, the peak of structure and destruction...'"

“Honestly, who writes these brochures anyway?!” I retorted. “I don't understand why it's so
complicated. Surely you can just say something like: 'The lamp is glowing and there are gooey blobs
floating around in it.' That's it!”

“Well... Because the book says that wax never takes the same shape twice. Every moment is unique, in
fact the lamp gives rise to states the universe has never seen before.”

On that note, we raised our heads almost simultaneously and stared at the
{<TV video="zbo6jUGrwdk">blobs of wax</TV>} floating inside the lamp. We gazed at their movement for
a while longer, and then set off again.

export const MapPuzzle = () => {
  const [solved, setSolved] = useState(false);
  return (
    <ConnectTheDots
      baseWidth={670}
      dots={[
        [187, 338],
        [206, 498],
        [338, 537],
        [475, 500],
        [562, 315],
        [404, 312],
      ]}
      initialPath={[]}
      successPredicate={(seq) => seq[seq.length - 1] === 2 && seq[0] === 0}
      image={map}
      onSuccessChange={(success) => setSolved(success)}
    >
      <Aside sticky>
        <p>
          <Spoiler reveal={solved}>
            According to the book, an idea was expressed in each of the road monuments. The ball of
            rubber string, the lava lamp, and even the toilet had a good reason for being built.
          </Spoiler>
        </p>
        <p>
          <Spoiler reveal={solved}>
            But should there be a reason for everything we do? I mean, sometimes we just act
            spontaneously - it seems right in the moment. And sometimes, it is precisely out of this
            randomness and aimlessness that meaning actually appears.
          </Spoiler>
        </p>
      </Aside>
    </ConnectTheDots>
  );
};

<MapPuzzle />

The map had a fairly non-linear structure, so we visited the monuments of 'cultural significance' in
completely random order.

Perhaps the most memorable was <TV video="LOiCbf65B2Y" from="0:35">the giant ball of rubber
string</TV>. It was truly enormous: the size of a seven-storey house. Originally, we hadn't planned
to visit it at all — it didn't look very impressive on the map, but up close its sheer size was
breathtaking.

We took a seat on one of the viewing platforms at a decent distance from the ball.

“Yes, a fascinating sight. I wonder what the brochure thinks the ball symbolises. Surely 'the
structure of the solar system, the centrism of life or the orb as a primitive beginning?'” I said.

“Let me see," Ash said, fiddling with the map, "OK, it says here that 'symbolises a big ball of
rubber string'. Sounds about right!”

“Whoever wrote this book must have seen the ball only once in his life.” said an unknown voice.

We turned around. An old man was sitting not far from us, smoking a pipe.

“I've lived here a long time and I've seen all three versions of the ball.”

“Wait, so this is a copy?” I was surprised.

“More like a new iteration. The rubber in our area is not as reliable as you might think, so every
ten to fifteen years, the ball is dismantled and a new one is put together. The old rubber string is
not thrown away, but recycled and used to make a lot of small rubber bands to make pickle jars seal
properly for the winter.”

“I wonder what they do with the old lava lamp wax then...”

“I'm not in charge of the lava lamp, but it's said that the universe itself absorbs it over time".
the old man took a long puff from his pipe.”

“Ah, yes, the universe...”

“Actually, you know what the interesting thing is, lads? The ball always starts and ends roughly the
same way, although a lot of tourists are interested in finding the end. Everyone asks: "show me the
end of the ball," so they can take pictures with it. But for me, the most important thing is what's
inside.”

The old man took another deep puff.

“Each version of the ball has a clear beginning and end. And the path that the rubber string travels
is the interesting part. For me it's a new story every time, a pattern I never tire of exploring...”

I don't remember how long we meditatively contemplated the ball. Everyone was immersed in their own
thoughts and the old man was slowly smoking his pipe.
