import constructionHasBegunImg from "./construction-has-begun.webp";

export const title = "05. Actions";

# 05. Actions

Most of the pavilions were already closed, and judging by the fact that the car park had practically
emptied out, we were the last people (except for the organisers) to leave the conference.
Surprisingly, the water park hadn't been as crowded as we'd expected: there weren't many visitors
who'd been as game-for-anything as we were.

We stood at the exit preparing to say goodbye to the friends we'd met. Phil and Evie were talking
with towels wrapped around their heads, while Ash was staring serenely up at the sky: he needed a
bit more time to recover from his water trip.

“We'll miss you!” said Evie “By the way, if you'd like to come to our workshop, we're working on a
small-scale but ambitious project and could really use an extra pair of hands.”

“Yeah, I wouldn't really say 'ambitious,'" Ruby added. "More like doomed to fail, the way things
have been going. But come by anyway — we'll make you a cup of tea from our new tea machine.”

Evie took my compass and punched in the coordinates of the workshop, so that we definitely wouldn't
lose our way. The compass needle swirled around excitedly, then pointed steadily to the southwest.

We decided to spend the night somewhere nearby: Ash was no longer able to drive, and I was was one
step away from falling asleep at the wheel. Unfortunately, due to the influx of tourists, the only
available spot was a cheap motel with tree houses. {<TV video="Rj7jQeEqL9I" from="0:37">At the
reception</TV>} we were greeted by a sad, yawning employee in an owl suit, who wordlessly handed us
the key to our lodge. The interior of the lodge featured an odd square carpet and a bunk-bed.
However, this did not bother us much as we were already fast asleep in five minutes.

...

We woke up and had a hearty breakfast in the hotel dining room — a clearing in the middle of the
forest with food served in wooden troughs. After that we set off. Fortunately, the workshop was only
an hour away, and thanks the navigation assistance Evie had given us, we made it there without too
much hassle. Apart from, of course, one stop, where Ash managed to step in something dark and sticky
and we spent some time shaking out the car mats and cleaning all the dirt off.

The workshop wasn't hard to recognise. It was a narrow, multi-floored structure, one side of which
was completely open, so you could see the work in progress from a distance. The team was building
what appeared to be some kind of tower or tall shed: they had erected scaffolding around their
creation in order to have access to every level.

Ruby was at the top, wearing a welder's mask, diligently affixing a piece of metal to the structure.
Phil and Evie were arguing on the lower level, holding some sort of plan.

“Hey, it's so awesome that you made it here!” exclaimed Phil happily as he greeted us.

“Meet our secret project — a modular home!” said Evie, putting her hands on our shoulders and
turning towards the workshop. “A acquaintance of ours wants to move closer to nature and to live in
a house, and we've volunteered to help.”

“Not for free, of course. But we've given him a good discount. Of course, we've been so slow with it
all that we're almost on the verge of giving up...”

“We wanted to invite you to work alongside us to help finish the project. We'd like to partner with
you for the duration of construction period, so to speak.”

We shook hands and got to work.

To tell the truth, I was totally confused at first. We had no clear plan and no breakdown of
responsibilities. On top of that, the current state of the project left a lot to be desired. The
house was unstable — an attempt to attach one element would cause two others to jut out of place.
The workshop space itself was also chaotic: {<TV video="wuKxKbtxCV0" from="0:08">tools</TV>} were
scattered all over the site, some of them were lost somewhere in the corners and rooms of the house
under construction.

<Image src={constructionHasBegunImg} />

I tried to find myself a little task that could at least give me peace of mind and some feeling of
control of the situation. I noticed that Ruby, who was taking on the toughest work on the team —
building the foundation, installing the walls and roof — was often idle while she was waiting for
materials. This was partly Phil's responsibility: he would bring up the boards on a trolley, then
unload them, then go up to the the first floor to hand the boards to Ruby.

I offered to help the guys out by acting as an extra link in the chain and delivering the boards to
the top floor. This way, Ruby could stay focused on installing the boards and work uninterrupted
with the hammer, while Phil only had to take care of the deliveries. I, on the other hand, could
transport the entire the new load up to the installation site. We were speeding up noticeably, but
only for a short while. After a while, Ruby finished working on the exterior and switched to
installing the windows, so the process had to had to be rearranged. There were far fewer of us than
there were tasks to be done. Each task switch up took up time and also added to the confusion, so we
often wandered around bemused, not knowing what we should take care of next.

The first day's work had come to an end. We {<TV video="2jZDBz0qVtM" from="1:24">were drinking
tea</TV>} on a plank bench at the back of the workshop. Evie was holding a mug with one hand and a
plan of the final design with the other. In addition to the small finishing work, she was also
involved in the design and drawings.

“I honestly don't know how we're going to finish it in time. With your help, the work has definitely
kicked up a gear, but we have so much to do. I'm afraid we won't be able to deliver the house on
time like this.”

“How much time do we have left?” I asked.

“We have a week. Even if we do our absolute best, we definitely won't finish the interior work in
time, but the biggest problem is that the foundation is unstable — I don't know how we'll fix it.
Worst comes to worst, I'm afraid we'll have to tear the whole house down and put it on a new
foundation...”

“Well, here's what I propose," I interjected, deciding to take the initiative. "I've been watching
us work, and I think our first order of business tomorrow is to clean and tidy the workshop and put
the tools in order. We waste way too much time looking for all the hammers, nails, drills and
chisels scattered all over the place. I also think we need to focus on the most important things and
maybe remove less critical things from the original plan.”

“I could help Evie with the foundations," Ash suggested, "I also think Ruby and Phil could finish
the roof together and after that the three of us could help them with the interior trim.”

Phil took a twig and began to write a list of the remaining interior work on the ground. Then
together we selected the two most important tasks and agreed that we would try to knock them over
the following day.

The next day began, as we had planned, with cleaning. We collected tools from different corners of
the construction site — there were many more than we'd thought — then we started sorting through the
materials and the leftovers. We removed the small scraps that got in the way; the bigger pieces of
wood and metal were put away in a separate box in case we needed to build some temporary structures.

We decided not to distract Evie and Ash, who were battling over how to fix the foundation. Ash
suggested a seemingly crazy idea — drilling a series of holes through the foundation and then
filling them with a mixture of concrete and steel bars. He had often seen this technique when he was
working on cakes: the finished cake had to be filled with cream which was pumped in with special
syringes. Thanks to his experience with the milling machine, by the end of the day, half of the
planned holes had been completed.

I helped Ruby and Phil finish the roof — this time I switched completely to moving materials. Phil
helped me assemble a temporary lift from the leftovers we'd collected, which we used to transport
the boards straight up to the roof of the structure.

At the end of the day we cleaned up again — so we could start the next day without wasting time on
preparation. Our {<TV video="bFRzZegVIhY" from="1:34">evening tea party</TV>} had now turned into a
daily planning session, during which everyone talked about what they'd worked on that day and what
difficulties they'd encountered. We were constantly adjusting the list of leftover tasks: some
things were added, but some particularly fantastic ideas had to be removed from the plan.

...

Exactly one week later, the house was done and handed over to the client. We weren't that satisfied
with the result, but at least the house had all the essentials, and it was reasonably stable and
safe.

Surprisingly, the client turned out to be a big fan of the house! First of all because of the
quality of the assembly, and secondly because there were no unnecessary details. It turned out that
our client valued having space to move (it was surprising, of course, that we only found out about
this when we delivered the house).

The foundation of the house had been built on a special platform deep in the ground. Now we
activated a hydraulic lift, lifted the house and loaded it onto a huge truck for transport. Upon
leaving, the satisfied client promised that he would definitely recommend our services to his
friends.

Before long Ash and I were ready to head off. We had just packed our bags and were about to go on
our way when a man appeared on the doorstep of the workshop with a new order. The other guys managed
to persuade us to stay.

This time around we invited the new client to all the tea parties. He enthusiastically shared his
vision for his future house and we wrote down his wishes, asked questions and discussed alternative
solutions together. Evie kept a diary and before every tea party she reviewed the previous day's
work and noted the previous day's progress in a journal.

Ash and Ruby worked on improving our tools to help the construction process run faster. Phil was
focused on {<TV video="Z7kLkcyN2kU" from="0:02">logistics</TV>} and helped the client choose the
right material for the finish. I decided to photograph every stage of the construction and the final
version: at our tea-drinking sessions I'd noticed that the client often didn't understand what he
would see at the end of the working process.

<HouseBuilder />

For our third order, we erected a separate house for ourselves, where we could live and work. We
created a separate area for tea parties on the balcony, and in bad weather we gathered in a room for
planning. We put up a sign at the entrance to the studio - 'Domik Limited'.

After we had five houses under our belt, we realised that we were short of hands. We started
bringing in friends and friends of friends who had heard about our success and wanted to work on
construction too. At this point the first difficulties arose: the team had grown and it became more
difficult to choose the right solution. Sometimes we quarrelled, but thanks to our daily tea parties
we quickly managed to find common ground. We made it a rule that during tea parties everyone could
bring up anything that annoyed or bothered them.

The growing number of orders also introduced an extra level of difficulty. It took Evie a while
before she was able to introduce a unified system of modules: now each floor design could be chosen
by the client from a list. Ash worked closely with Evie and Ruby and was particularly good at
finding complex, unconventional solutions. Phil managed to noticeably raise the quality of the
assembly by introducing a rule that the whole team would stop work and come together if there was a
defect in one of the stages. Ruby assembled a pretty good team of builders and experimented with
management techniques. I was in charge o helping the guys establish communication between
departments, promotions and processing customer feedback.

Everyone was busy doing what they did best. We were sharing experiences during the tea parties and
working on on a common cause, which gave us the strength to take on each new project with amazing
enthusiasm and commitment.
