import { useState } from "react";

import meetingFriendsImg from "./meeting-new-friends.webp";
import panicAttackImg from "./panic-attack.webp";
import backToNormalImg from "./back-to-normal.webp";
import starsImg from "./looking-at-the-stars.webp";
import starsOverlayImg from "./stars-overlay.webp";

export const title = "04. Feelings";

# 04. Feelings

I suggested to Ash that I drive instead of him for a while. Partly because I was worried that his
fatigue would cause us to plunge into the river again, but primarily because I wanted to try and
drive the car myself. He quickly agreed, and was soon snoring on the back seat.

As I got behind the wheel, I realised I'd overlooked one important detail: I'd never driven with an
{<TV video="WI6lgUlEUFU" from="00:08" withSound> inverted steering wheel</TV>}. I had to twist the
wheel to prevent it from turning in the opposite direction, and make sure that it never remained in
a straight position. The whole confounding thing was causing me to have some kind of mental block.
After trying a few simple manoeuvres, I realised that I couldn't move the car more than half a
metre. Although it felt like my brain was working at two hundred percent capacity, and my mind could
grasp how to turn the steering wheel, my automatic reflexes kicked in and my attempt immediately
failed.

This situation made me really uncomfortable: in the past it had been quite easy for me to change my
approach to tasks or to learn a new skill. What if I was losing my grip the older I became? Perhaps
I was no longer able to develop and grow like I could before, and I was now doomed to be "rusty" and
lag behind other, more competent people. At that moment, I was utterly convinced that if someone
else had been in the driver's seat, they would have been able to figure everything out in a few
minutes. But I decided to fight against my engulfing feeling of
{<Emotion feeling="sadness">sadness</Emotion>} and give myself another chance. If it didn't work
out, well… I'd just wake Ash up, go back to the passenger seat and stare gloomily at the road.

In fact, it wasn't as bad as I'd expected. At least I was able to drive a few metres at a leisurely
pace. I made a couple of attempts and then took a short break, and after about an hour of driving, I
finally got the hang of it. It was great! I enjoyed driving the car so much that I trundled along
the rest of the way in a great mood.

“So, are you getting used to the car?” asked Ash, who had just woken up.

“It was a piece of cake!” I replied, deciding not to burden him with a recap of my recent bout of
soul-searching.

Suddenly the compass needle began to flicker violently, then pause briefly, then make several full
revolutions again.

“Look, I think we're very close!” Ash pointed with his index finger. We were coming down a small
hill and we had a pretty good view of a valley with a giant doughnut-shaped pavilion in front of us.

As we approached the pavilion, I saw a sign reading: "Annual Conference of Water Slide and
Water-based Recreation Enthusiasts."

In front of the entrance to the pavilion there was a reception area for participants. Having sorted
out parking (a manoeuvre that didn't work out for me the first time, although I was already feeling
much more confident), we joined the queue. I was feeling {<Emotion feeling="anxiety">slightly
agitated</Emotion>}. It wasn't due to trepidation because of the crowds inside, rather, I felt
anticipation and a slight fear of the unknown. What was awaiting us there?

The volunteers at the check-in desk asked for our tickets and in return they gave us wristbands with
our names on them.

We entered a hall where the stands and tents were set up. There was a great buzz of conversation in
the hall. People crowded around each stand, eager to listen to the speakers — they were apparently
talking about innovations in the waterslide industry.

For the first half an hour we just walked between the rows and stared at the stands. Then we plucked
up a bit of courage and decided to talk to the other participants, some of whom seemed were just as
surprised by the whole affair and a bit shy. But we were able to chat away in quite a relaxed manner
— it seemed that the conference audience was more open to conversation, I guess because of
everyone's common interest in water-based activities, saunas and slides.

<Image src={meetingFriendsImg} />

But the people who made a strong impression on us was a group who were at the conference for the
first time too. Their names were Evie, Ruby and Phil. We hit it off pretty quickly and I felt
particularly comfortable with them. We discussed the stands we had enjoyed and other topics, such as
our adventure that had involved us turning off a road straight into a river.

“Yep, it was super lucky, of course, that we had an air cushion! I don't know what we would've done
without it.”

“I saw a booth advertising an amusement ride specifically for these cars," Evie said. “You sit
behind the wheel, inflate the cushion, and the water current carries you downstream. It's designed
so that the car can't tip over, but you can still get hit by jets of water, hehe!”

Suddenly Ash interjected: “Guys, would you like some
{<TV video="aXgFcNUWqX0" from="0:23" withSound>magic yogurt</TV>}? I was given a free sample, and
there's enough for everyone.”

Ash had appeared with a tray as if out of nowhere. He kept disappearing in the middle of our
conversation — he wanted to go around all the stands and make sure he didn't miss anything. We each
took a cup of the yoghurt — all the constant talking actually took some energy, and there was so
much more that we wanted to see.

“By the way, do you know that there is a second hall?” Phil asked, holding an empty yoghurt cup in
his hand. The organisers created a water park there. We wanted to try it, but we haven't got round
to it yet…”

“So what are we waiting for? Let's all go together!” I exclaimed, suddenly very enthused about the
idea.

...

We stood at the end of the corridor between the main pavilion and the water park. Our group was
trying to decide which slide to start on, arguing, laughing and taking turns pointing at the map on
the wall.

But I wasn't listening. I felt like I was there with them, yet I also wasn't. It was as if was
looking at myself and them from the sidelines, trying to make sense of this particular moment. It
was a very strange sensation, difficult to explain in words, unlike anything I'd experienced before.
Suddenly, everything seemed so unreal and illogical: the words, the sounds, the light, this whole
situation.

“Why are we here? Why am I spending time with them? Soon it won't make any difference anyway. We'll
say goodbye, we'll part, and it will be lonesome and painful. A {<Emotion feeling="fear">deep
fear</Emotion>} overwhelmed me. It became difficult to focus on the words and objects in front of
me. My heart raced in my chest, it was hard to breathe...

export const PanicAttack = () => {
  const [solved, setSolved] = useState(false);
  const text =
    "«Deep breath in, slow exhale, inhale, hold my breath, exhale as long as possible. " + 
    "Focus on simple objects around me, look at my hands, try to remember every  " + 
    "detail.  Switch my hearing back on, now my eyesight, look at my friends. " +
    "It's nice and easy to be with them, and that's important. It's the “here and now” " +
    "that matters, not what's going to happen to us later».";
  return (
    <>
      <Image src={panicAttackImg} style={{ display: !solved ? 'block' : 'none' }} float="right" width="33%" />
      <Image src={backToNormalImg} style={{ display: solved ? 'block' : 'none' }} float="right" width="33%" />
      <SlurredSpeech onComplete={(state) => setSolved(state)}>{text}</SlurredSpeech>
    </>

); };

<PanicAttack />

“Kay, we've decided to start with the huge {<TV video="lLHlsRm3gLY" from="2:48">"soup pot"</TV>}.
Are you with us? Come on, it'll be fun! Everyone can wear whatever swimming ring they like: you can
be an onion or a carrot, and even a Brussel sprout!

I realised that I already felt better and the words were making sense again.

“Yes, yes, of course! I'd like to be a carrot...”

The soup ride turned out to be a good start. We jumped into the pool in the shape of a camping soup
pot, were spun around in an artificial whirlpool, then the pot wall opened and we swam out. A wave
washed over me. The water was so soft and warm... I held my breath, relaxed my muscles, and watched
the rays of light pass through the surface of the water.

We decided to try all the slides in the water park. Inside a closed tube made of a completely dark
material that absorbs light and sound it felt as if you were in weightlessness when you plummeted
down it. There was a cannon that launched you several metres into the air. There was also an
underwater three-room house — each room had an air pocket into which you could dive and then look up
at the ceiling and listen to your echo. And there was even a group ride where each participant could
pre-program the flow of water currents for the next person after them.

After riding the rides, we ascended to the roof of the pavilion using an {<TV video="Ma4Vnk5Rn8I">
elevator</TV>}, a small ascending water-filled tub that could be accessed from the main pool. This
roof-space was set aside specifically for relaxing activities: saunas, thermal pools and areas where
you could in inhale calming vapours and steams.

export const StarsPuzzle = () => {
  const [solved, setSolved] = useState(false);
  return (
    <ConnectTheDots
      baseWidth={670}
      dots={[
        [122, 200],
        [160, 90],
        [355, 105],
        [610, 190],
        [550, 40],
      ]}
      initialPath={[]}
      successPredicate={(seq) => {
        const correctOrder = [0, 1, 3, 2];
        let idx = 0;
        for (let el of seq) {
          if (el === correctOrder[idx]) {
            if (++idx >= correctOrder.length) return true;
          }
        }
        return false;
      }}
      image={starsImg}
      overlayImage={starsOverlayImg}
      background="dark"
      onSuccessChange={(success) => setSolved(success)}
    >
      <Aside sticky>
        <p>
          <Spoiler reveal={solved}>“So…what was in that magic yoghurt anyway?”</Spoiler>
        </p>
        <p>
          <Spoiler reveal={solved}>
            “Nothing fancy: vitamins to keep you energised, and a few tonics, because conferences
            demand a lot of strength and energy. That's all!”
          </Spoiler>
        </p>
      </Aside>
    </ConnectTheDots>
  );
};

<StarsPuzzle />

Time had flown by so imperceptibly that it was already evening. We were lying in the thermal pool,
looking up at the dark sky, watching the stars. Suddenly, a feeling of indescribable warmth and
{<Emotion feeling="happiness">joy</Emotion>} came over me. I felt so good in that moment, so
comfortable and at ease with our new friends. It had been an incredibly intense and varied day, but
I didn't regret at all that I'd experienced such a range of different, sometimes uneasy emotions.
