import jobsImage from "./jobs.jpg";
import failImage from "./epic-fail.jpg";

export const title = "02. Mistakes";

# 02. Mistakes

As it turned out, we did in fact spend the first part of our journey in silence. I was so exhausted
by the whirlwind of thoughts and emotions that enveloped me that I blacked out within the first few
minutes of the trip. I woke up in the early hours of the morning with the realisation that my
strength had returned to me. My decision the day before to get in the car also didn't seem so rash
anymore. After all, I had always been fascinated by the suddenness and spontaneity of road trips.

Ash continued to drive the car in silence, concentrating on the road. The car certainly had an
interesting feature: because it had no accelerator pedal, it could only move when the steering wheel
was constantly being turned. Of course, it had a brake pedal, but it could only go left or right, so
we were following an extremely winding trajectory.

“I hope you don't mind me asking, but where are we actually going?” <Gem oct={1} />

“You know, I have no idea where the end of the road is," he shrugged. “But at least we don't have to
figure out what direction we're supposed to go.”

I noticed that his compass was temporarily mounted on the dashboard. And although it was showing a
direction, the arrow seemed to be working sluggishly, and periodically wavered from its course.

“Well the thing is, I received an invitation to an event. A colleague of mine from work couldn't
make it, so he gave me two tickets as a gift.”

“Uh… at work? What do you do?” I inquired.

“Thanks for asking! I operate a milling machine in a small pastry shop. You know when you you buy
cakes with different fillings or shapes? Well, that's my job — I use my machine to make these cakes
nice and even.”

<Image src={jobsImage} />

“Sounds Interesting...”

“Yes, it's not an easy job in general, but I have a lot of experience and I think I'm doing pretty
well at it. It's better to an excel at one thing than be a jack of all trades. What do you do for a
living, Kay?”

”I'm an independent consultant," I began proudly. “I help my clients (companies or individuals)
chronicle their lives through photographs. I tell them what moments are the best ones to preserve,
plus I help them create photo albums and suggest good captions. Companies need this to sell their
useless products better, and people need it to feel more confident and to share important moments in
their lives with others. For example, a promotion at work or even the pancakes they had for
breakfast.”

"Hmmm, that doesn't really sound as interesting as I'd imagined," I thought to myself.

“That's great! I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I think we're going to have to turn right soon.”

“Are you sure? It doesn't look like the road leads that way...”

There was a river to our right, so there was no way we could go in that direction.

“The compass says we have to turn though," Ash argued doggedly.

“There's no way through, there's a river there!

“But the compass never lies — it knows the right direction!” <Gem oct={0} />

As expected, the car skidded through the bushes lining the riverbank and ended up partially in the
water. Ash had managed to brake just in time to avoid the car going further in and us being
completely submerged in the river.

I clutched my head. I couldn't believe we'd intentionally done something so stupid.

We sat in silence for about fifteen minutes, staring straight ahead.

“You were right, the compass is really out of whack... Sorry, I didn't mean to get us drowned.”

<Image src={failImage} />

“What's done is done," I said, "in fact, I've heard of several <TV video="DOW_kPzY_JY" from="0:45">
similar cases</TV>. Compasses — even the newest ones — do malfunction from time to time. Im
surprised the manufacturers don't offer special insurance against these types of situations.

“Yes... It's interesting that we sometimes trust compasses so much that we forget about our own
senses. It's as if we're not the ones making the decisions, rather that little box is….. But what do
we do now?”

“I think I know — I noticed a button on the dashboard shaped like a drop of water earlier.”

I took a chance and pressed it. Suddenly, the car lifted, and I felt the rubber bumper filling with
air. In a minute we were already on the surface of the water and floating, the car slightly rocking
from side to side. I thought I'd seen {<TV video="D1MDwVRgoQc" from="4:38">something similar</TV>}
in a movie, but I'd never had a chance to try it in person.

“No way!” exclaimed Ash in surprise, “I didn't know it could do that!” <Gem oct={0} />

A couple of minutes later we were sailing in the right direction, to the soothing, monotonous sound
of the motor that was keeping the car's air cushion inflated.

I realised that everything hadn't turned out at all as awfully as I'd imagined. This situation had
unlocked new possibilities, because now we could not only travel along the road, we could also cross
rivers. I then recalled that there had been other situations in my life where seemingly catastrophic
errors had ended up being the precursor to new experiences.
